## Why Peritext ?

As much upstream as downstream of the publishing act, textual productions coming from Humanities researchers make a growingly intimate use of digital environments (first of them being the web) in which they are inscribed.

One can witness the arising, in the field of humanities academic communication, of a wide variety of heteroclit objects which participate in more and more active way in research processes. These can be as diverse as online audiovisual recordings produced or analyzed in scientific contexts, social networks use as corpus elements or excerpts of ongoing debates, mobilization of archives or sources repositories digitized and made avaiable for tabular or diagrammatic presentation.

However, in the most spread formats of academic publishing, web’s traces and other digital resource still hardly escape from pages margins : they are surreptitiously spotted either at a turn of a footnote (as a discrete hyperlink), timidly reproduced in a secondary appendix, hanging in the end of a bibliographic entry or in a figure’s legend, etc. These connections to external elements designate rich resources, with a content that could contribute to the arguments being developed, furthermore often available freely. And still, they stay on the thereshold of ideas exchanges and arguments, notably because they vanish or even disappear in documents once translated to instituted publication formats (articles, monographies, proceedings, dissertations, …).

On the other hand, the rise of online academic publishing, of the movement for open access to research results, and of new communication practices from researchers themselves spanning from using social networks to diverse online publication forms, have installed a new regime of production and circulation of academic documents in which the latter can be discussed, criticized, reformatted and editorialized accross a multitude of scientific, social and mediatic worlds.

Therefore, there is a necessity to invent new ways of connect the modes of academic document productions with the context of the web. This recontexutalization must be active in two directions : the digital environments must be more significatively summonable in academic documents formats, and the academic documents must be more significatively contextualizables in digital environments. That is the grounding hypothesis beneath Peritext.
